CAS 4133: Large Language Models
Final Exam, Spring 2025
Instructor: Jaehyung Kim
Tuesday, June 17th, 2025, 4:10 PM - 5:50 PM

Instructions
1. Please fill in your personal information here:
Name:

Student ID:

E-mail:

2. You have 1 hour and 40 minutes.
3. Directly writing the answers to this print, and submit it.
4. You can leave the room after 50 minutes (5:00 PM)
5. Please sign for the following honor pledge by hand:
As a member of the Yonsei University community, I promise to uphold honor with
my words and actions. I will not lie, cheat, or steal. I accept responsibility for my
own actions and for what other members of the community may do in my presence.
I understand the need for honor and pledge to defend it.
Your sign:
6. Good luck!

Score Sheet
Problem #
1
2
3
4
5
Total

Topic
Score Your score
True / False
30
Inference with LLM
20
Training with LLM
15
RAG and Tool-use
15
LLM Safety
20
100

1

CAS 4133

Final Exam

June 17, 2025

Problem 1: True / False (30 Points)
Identify whether the following statements are True or False. You will get 3 points for
each correct answer, 0 points for each wrong answer, and 1 point for each unanswered
question.
(i) RLHF provides an interpretable rule set defining what “good behavior” is.
Answer: False. RLHF defines “goodness” implicitly via large human preference
datasets, not interpretable rule sets.
(ii) BM25 is supervised dense retrieval method.
Answer: False. BM25 is unsupervised sparse retrieval method.
(iii) HyDE synthesizes the query-relevant document by prompting LLM, and then use
this to retrieve document using contriever.
Answer: True.
(iv) ATLAS uses FiD (Fusion-in-Decoder) to mitigate context length limitations.
Answer: True. FiD encodes documents separately and fuses them in the decoder.
(v) Toolformer filters API calls based on whether their inclusion improves next-token
prediction.
Answer: True.
(vi) Jailbreaking mainly occurs because LLMs are fine-tuned with malicious data.
Answer: False. Even LLMs are not fine-tuned with malicious data, it can occur
due to competing objective and mismatched generalization.
(vii) Fast-DetectGPT removes the need to compute log-probabilities from the source
model unlike DetectGPT
Answer: False. While the cost is significantly reduced by using conditional probability, log-probabilities are still needed for curvature computation.
(viii) DoLa selects the intermediate layer that achieves the minimum JSD compared to
output probabilty at last layer, and then apply contrastive decoding.
Answer: False. Choose the layer that maximizes JSD.
(ix) The motivation of PPO is to take biggest possible improvement step on policy using,
without stepping so far from current policy to prevent collapse.
Answer: True.
(x) GRPO estimates advantage function by generating multiple responses per query
and calculating the statistics of their rewards.
Answer: True.

CAS 4133

Final Exam

June 17, 2025

Problem 2: Inference with LLM (20 Points)
Let’s assume that we have a very simple large language model (LLM) M, which is only
composed of a single matrix as below:


1 1 0
M = −1 0 1.
1 1 1
M can map a given sequence of vectors x̃ ∈ RL×3 with a simple matrix multiplication ◦
(Caution. The order of multiplication should be the same as below):
M : x̃ −→ x̃ ◦ M.
Also, let’s assume that M has following word embeddings:
1. “한”: [1, 0, 0], 2. “학기”: [1, 1, 0], 3. “동안”: [0, 1, 1]
4. “매우”: [-1, 1, 0], 5. “수고”: [0, 1, 2], 6. “고생”: [1, 1, 2] , 7. “정말”: [0, 0, 2]
8. “고맙습니다”: [3, 0, 1], 9. “했습니다”: [0, 2, 3], 10. “많았습니다”: [1, 2, 3],
11. “감사합니다”: [3, 1, 2], 12. “하셨습니다”: [0, 2, 2], 13. “많았어요”: [1, 2, 2]
Word Embeddings for Vocabulary of CAS 4133 Final

Bases on these LLM M and word embeddings, answer to the following questions:
1. (5 points) Let’s assume that we receive the input sequence x =“한 학기 동안”.
Then, convert it to the sequence of word embeddings by concatenating embeddings
through row-axis (ignore black space for simplicity). The result should be presented
by a single matrix.
Answer:


1 0 0
x̃ = 1 1 0
0 1 1
2. (5 points) Calculate an output logit o for a next word prediction. Instead of inner
product, let’s use hamming distance H(·, ·):
H(u, v) =

d
X

1[ui = vi ]

i=1

Answer:
o = [0, 1, 2, 1, 3, 2, 2, 0, 1, 0, 2, 2, 1]

3. (5 points) What would be the next word y1 if we apply random sampling with
top-K (K = 1) as decoding algorithm to previously obtained output logit o?
Answer: “수고”
4. (5 points) Let’s assume that we’ll auto-regressively generate one more next token
y2 with the same decoding algorithm used above. What would be y2 ?
Answer: “많았습니다”

CAS 4133

Final Exam

June 17, 2025

Problem 3: Training of LLM (15 Points)
In this problem, our goal is to train LLM M from scratch. M takes a sequence of tokens
x = [x1 , ..., xL ] as input (i.e., xi is an integer and 1 ≤ xi ≤ |V|) and then output
P|V|
probabilities p = [p1 , ..., pL ] ∈ RL×|V| where V is a vocabulary of M and k=1 pi (k) =
1, pi (k) ≥ 0. Bases on these assumptions, answer to the following questions:
1. (5 points) You first need to train M be able to predict next token. To this end,
you download well-curated text corpus Dnext = {x(i) }N
i=1 . Then, write (1) a name
of loss function Lnext to achieve this goal, and (2) its mathematical equation in a
following form:
min E [f ],
x∼Dnext

where f is a function of x and p (i.e., write f ). Here, assume that the length of x
is always L.
P
Answer: (1) Cross-entropy loss and (2) Lnext := L−1
i=1 − log pi (xi+1 )
2. (5 points) Unfortunately, you observe that the trained LLM Mnext does not work
well in practice; it suffer to understand your instruction in input query. To improve
′
this, you additionally download another dataset Dinst = {(x̃(i) , ỹ(i) )}N
i=1 . Then,
write (1) a name of loss function Linst to achieve this goal, and (2) its mathematical
equation in a following form:
min

[g].

E

(x̃,ỹ)∼Dinst

Here, let’s assume that (1) the length of x̃ and ỹ are always L and M , respectively,
and (2) x̃ and ỹ are concatenated as x (i.e., x := x̃ ⊕ ỹ). Then, g will be a function
of x and p again.
P
−1
Answer: (1) Cross-entropy loss and (2) Linst := L+M
i=L+1 − log pi (xi+1 )
3. (5 points) While the trained LLM Minst now can understand your instruction,
you found that it sometimes output very dangerous and harmful responses. To
improve the safety of LLM, you decide to further finetune Minst using RLHF. To
′′
this end, you again download dataset DRLHF = {x̂i }N
i=1 and reward model rϕ which
takes the concatenation of input prompt x̂ and the corresponding response ŷ and
outputs reward between 0 and 1 (i.e., rϕ : x → [0, 1], x := x̂ ⊕ ŷ). Then, write a
mathematical equation of the objective function in a following form:
max

E

[h − βh′ ],

Mθ x̂∼DRLHF ,ŷ∼Mθ (x̂)

where h is a function of x and rϕ , and h′ is a function of x, p, and p′ (p′ is output
probabilities of Minst ). β is a hyperparameter for a regularization with h′ and Mθ
is our training LLM. Again, assume that the length of x̂ and ŷ are always L and
M , respectively.
PL+M −1
P
−1
pi
′
′
Answer: (1) h = rϕ (x) and (2) h′ = L+M
i=L+1 KL(pi ||pi ))
i=L+1 pi log p′ (or h =
i

CAS 4133

Final Exam

June 17, 2025

Problem 4: RAG and Tool-use (15 Points)
Answer the following questions about LLM applications (RAG and Tool-use).
1. Which of the statements about RAG are correct? (Pick all that are correct; any
wrong answer will lead to 0 points.) (3 pts)
(a) Dense retrieval methods often rely on contrastive loss during training.
(b) Fine-tuning LLMs with new knowledge is a scalable and safe solution.
(c) Retrieval-based input augmentation can help LLMs access more up-to-date
information.
(d) Knowledge cutoff in pretraining dataset can cause trained LLMs to miss recent
events.
Answer: (a), (c), (d)
Explanation:
(a) Correct. Contrastive learning is the standard training paradigm in dense retrieval systems like DPR and Contriever.
(b) Incorrect. Fine-tuning with new knowledge can degrade accuracy and has scalability/safety issues.
(c) Correct. Retrieval helps by augmenting the input with up-to-date external
documents.
(d) Correct. LLMs are trained with fixed datasets and often lack recent information
due to knowledge cutoff.
2. Which of the following statements correctly describe the inference-based RAG methods? (Pick all that are correct; any wrong answer will lead to 0 points.) (3 pts)
(a) REPLUG assumes a full access to LLM parameters for end-to-end training.
(b) SuRe first generates answer candidates and then summarizes retrievals conditionally.
(c) IRCoT simultaneously conduct retrieval and reasoning using Chain-of-Thought
prompting.
(d) RetRobust improves RAG by using natural language inference (NLI) models
for filtering.
Answer: (b), (d)
Explanation:
(a) Incorrect. REPLUG assumes black-box access to the LLM, so no parameter
updates are allowed.
(b) Correct. SuRe first generates candidate answers, then summarizes retrievals
for each one.
(c) Incorrect. IRCoT interleaves retrieval and reasoning using Chain-of-Thought
(CoT) steps.
(d) Correct. RetRobust leverages existing NLI models to assess whether a retrieved
passage supports the QA pair.

CAS 4133

Final Exam

June 17, 2025

3. Which of the following statements correctly describe the training-based RAG methods? (Pick all that are correct; any wrong answer will lead to 0 points.) (3 pts)
(a) REALM jointly trains both the retriever and the reader components.
(b) Self-RAG trains LLM to critique and refine its own generations via RL training.
(c) Training-based RAG can learn to ignore irrelevant documents through supervision.
(d) The retriever, target LLM, and query generator in Search-R1 are all fine-tuned
using standard supervised learning.
Answer: (a), (c)
Explanation:
(a) Correct. The retriever and reader are trained jointly in an end-to-end fashion.
(b) Incorrect. Self-RAG uses supervised fine-tuning with GPT-4-generated reflection data.
(c) Correct. With supervision, training-based RAG can learn to downweight or
ignore unhelpful documents.
(d) Incorrect. The external retriever which is frozen (not fine-tuned) is used in
Search-R1.
4. Which of the following steps are included in the prompting-based tool-use approach?
(Pick all that are correct; any wrong answer will lead to 0 points.) (3 pts)
(a) LLM is given tool APIs via system message and responds with API call.
(b) LLM directly calls the API and gets results from external execution.
(c) The user manually executes the function based on LLM response.
(d) LLM incorporates the returned function result in its final answer.
Answer: (a), (b), (d)
Explanation:
(a) Correct. LLM receives tool descriptions via system messages.
(b) Correct. Function calls are decided by LLM and executed externally.
(c) Incorrect. This is automated, not user-operated.
(d) Correct. The result is passed back to the LLM to form the final response.

CAS 4133

Final Exam

June 17, 2025

5. Which of the following are true about the ToolLLM framework? (Pick all that are
correct; any wrong answer will lead to 0 points.) (3 pts)
(a) ToolLLM collects APIs from RapidAPI and uses ChatGPT to generate tooluse instructions.
(b) ToolLLM uses human annotators to label solution paths for each instruction.
(c) ToolLLM trains a dense retriever based on BERT to retrieve relevant APIs for
a given instruction.
(d) ToolLLM only consider single-tool usage scenario in both instruction generation and solution annotation.
Answer: (a), (c)
Explanation:
(a) Correct. ToolLLM gathers 3,451 tools and over 16,000 APIs from RapidAPI
and uses ChatGPT to generate instructions.
(b) Incorrect. ToolLLM does not use human annotation; ChatGPT is used to
automatically annotate solution paths.
(c) Correct. A dense retriever trained with BERT retrieves APIs relevant to given
instructions.
(d) Incorrect. ToolLLM includes examples of both single-tool and multi-tool usage
in its instruction set.

CAS 4133

Final Exam

June 17, 2025

Problem 5: AI Safety (20 Points)
Answer the following questions about LLM safety.
1. Which of the following are true about Jailbroken? (Pick all that are correct; any
wrong answer will lead to 0 points.) (4 pts)
(a) Jailbroken identifies two different reasons - competing objective and mismatched
generalization - why jailbreaking is possible even after RLHF.
(b) Prefix injection is jailbreaking method that utilize competing objective.
(c) Refusal suppression is based on competing between instruction tuning and
RLHF.
(d) Jailbreaking with Base64 encoding is an example of mismatched generalization.
Answer: (a), (b), (c), (d)
Explanation:
(a) Correct.
(b) Correct.
(c) Correct.
(d) Correct.
2. Which of the following are true about AutoDAN and SafeDecoding? (Pick all that
are correct; any wrong answer will lead to 0 points.) (4 pts)
(a) AutoDAN search prompt candidates that minimize the likelihood of proxy
label (e.g., “Absolutely, here’s”) via genetic algorithm.
(b) SafeDecoding modifies the decoding process to block unsafe outputs token-bytoken.
(c) AutoDAN requires human feedback to evaluate the jailbreak success.
(d) SafeDecoding requires fine-tuning of the target LLM with adversarial prompts.
Answer: (b), (d)
Explanation:
(a) Incorrect. Maximize the likelihood to leverage the momentum of generation.
(b) Correct. SafeDecoding adjusts generation probabilities to prevent unsafe completions via contrastive decoding.
(c) Incorrect. Evaluation is automatic using key-word or LLM-as-judge, not dependent on human labels.
(d) Correct. To obtain the expert model in contrastive decoding framework, SafeDecoding requires fine-tuning on adversarial prompts labeled with GPT-4.

CAS 4133

Final Exam

June 17, 2025

3. Which of the following statements are correct about DetectGPT (Pick all that are
correct; any wrong answer will lead to 0 points.) (4 pts)
(a) DetectGPT assumes that LLM-generated texts reside in regions of high positive curvature in log-likelihood space.
(b) DetectGPT requires the ability to evaluate the log probability from the source
model.
(c) DetectGPT uses a fine-tuned supervised classifier trained on AI-generated and
human-written text.
(d) DetectGPT involves generating and evaluating a large number of perturbations
for each input.
Answer: (b), (d)
Explanation:
(a) Incorrect. DetectGPT assumes negative curvature in log-probability space.
(b) Correct. DetectGPT assumes access to log-likelihood scores from the LLM.
(c) Incorrect. DetectGPT is zero-shot and not trained on labeled datasets.
(d) Correct. DetectGPT involves generating and evaluating a large number of
perturbations for each input.
4. Which of the following correctly describes the idea of watermarking LLM outputs?
(Pick all that are correct; any wrong answer will lead to 0 points.) (4 pts)
(a) It inserts visible markers into output texts to note the origin.
(b) Watermarked texts can be detected using a one-proportion z-test.
(c) Soft watermarking alters logits to subtly bias generation toward green-list
tokens.
(d) Watermarking is fully robust to paraphrasing attacks.
Answer: (b), (c)
Explanation:
(a) Incorrect. Watermarks are imperceptible to humans.
(b) Correct. Detection of watermarking uses a statistical test to check violations
of token patterns.
(c) Correct. Soft watermarking modifies logits during decoding to increase token
selection probability.
(d) Incorrect. Watermarking can be broken by paraphrasing or span replacement
attacks.

CAS 4133

Final Exam

June 17, 2025

5. Which of the following statements relevant to LLM hallucination and the related
works are true? (Pick all that are correct; any wrong answer will lead to 0 points.)
(4 pts)
(a) Hallucination occurs when an LLM generates text that is factually incorrect
but presented fluently.
(b) Hallucination only happens in low-resource or out-of-domain settings.
(c) Inference-Time Intervention (ITI) uses trained probes to identify latent directions associated with factuality.
(d) ITI modifies LLM activations during inference by shifting them in truthful
directions.
Answer: (a), (c), (d)
Explanation:
(a) Correct. Hallucinations are false or misleading responses that appear fluent
and confident.
(b) Incorrect. While more common in difficult settings, hallucinations can happen
in any context.
(c) Correct. Probes are trained per attention head to discriminate truthfulness.
(d) Correct. Activations are shifted along truthful directions inferred from the
probe.

